your smartphone can't boast a built-in
thermometer because it won't tell you
the correct air temperature anyway the
phone is a device that radiates its own
heat plus people often carry smartphones
inside their pockets where gadgets get
heated most phones still have
thermometers but those are for the
battery to shut the phone down if it
gets too hot but even though your gadget
can't function as a thermometer per se
there are many temperature apps both for
Android devices and smartphones even
better some Android phones for example
Samsung Galaxy can check humidity levels
in the air check it in the health app
comfort level another thing most phones
don't have these days is a removable
battery the most important reason
gadgets have become way slimmer and
lighter and non removable batteries take
less space and we not so much this
technology also allows manufacturers to
produce waterproof phones and protect
your device from dust your smart phone
doesn't come with a night-vision camera
because it's too expensive phone
producers don't want to waste tons of
money on something you'd use for 2 to 3
percent of the time at most if your
gadget was equipped with one it would
also drain the battery lightning fast
but your smartphone camera can easily
take amazing underwater pics and you
don't need a costly waterproof case for
that just put your device in a glass
container for example a kitchen pitcher
drinking glassware mason jar be very
careful to keep the top part of the
container above the surface not to let
the water in
oh that's important if you're an iPhone
owner you can create your own emoji and
tech shortcuts go to settings keyboard
text replacement in the upper right hand
corner you'll see the plus symbol hit it
and add phrases to use emojis for or
type shorthand then next time you type
the symbol or characters the needed word
will pop up
if you're trying to do some work but
your hand keeps stretching toward your
iPhone make the device less appealing by
enabling grayscale go to settings
accessibility display accommodations and
choose color filters once there switch
on grayscale and your screen will become
dimmer and less alluring most
smartphones these days can scan QR codes
without any additional apps you have to
install it's slightly more difficult
with barcodes but after downloading the
barcode scanner application you can
check products prices with your phone if
you take your androids phone security
seriously you can encrypt your data go
to settings security encrypt device
you'll have to invent a pin and then
you'll be able to encrypt your data from
passwords to personal conversations on
some Android devices you can use
gestures and hand motions to control
your phone choose settings my device
motions and gestures palm motions it'll
let you mute or pause videos and take
screenshots by simply swiping your palm
over the screen you can find a photo
among thousands of pictures on your
phone really fast by using the search
function it's usually at the top of your
photo app there you can look for photos
by category for example try typing in
dogs and all the pits with your pooch
will show up ever started taking a video
on your iPhone and wished you could snap
a photo as well when you're recording
something there's a white button on the
screen press it and you'll take a photo
without interrupting the video use glow
sticks to add a colorful cool of fat to
your smartphone photos keep a bunch of
them in front of the camera the picture
will be a bit out of focus with blurry
colourful streaks of light in the
foreground
some Android devices have an amazing
feature your smartphone screen only
stays bright while you're looking at it
this can save up to 30% of the battery
power usually this mode can be switched
on in settings display smart stay it's
hard to say who's calling you when your
phone is on vibrate in your pocket
luckily for Android owners it's possible
to customize vibrations for different
contacts go to contacts choose a name
and click Edit then scroll down and tap
more options vibration pattern choose
one of the existing patterns or create
your own some Android smartphones have a
built-in infrared blaster that's why you
can use your gadget as a TV remote
download a special app from Google Play
and you'll be able to control anything
that works with infrared signals from a
cable box to the garage gates you can
teach Siri to pronounce frequently use
names or words correctly activate Siri
and ask the program to say the word it
regularly mispronounces once you hear it
comment you're saying it wrong then
pronounce the word properly after that
you'll see a list of options you can use
to correct series pronunciation spray
some water on a pair of glasses and take
a photo through one of the lenses it'll
work as a cool makeshift filter and
blurry spots will adorn your pics if you
need to edit some text you've typed on
your iPhone long press on the spacebar
it'll turn the keyboard into a trackpad
and you'll be able to move the cursor
wherever you need you can use your smart
phone as a compass when going on a hike
modern devices are equipped with all
kinds of sensors not only do they figure
out which way is up or down but they can
also tell the south from the north
download one of the many compass apps
and your phone will help you navigate in
the forest you can undo a typo on your
iPhone simply by shaking your device
you'll see the option undo typing pop up
on the screen if you have an Android
phone you can download a shake to undo
module and you'll have the same effect
some Android phones will let you use the
ok Google command even when the devices
screen is off if your phone supports
this function you can unlock your device
with your voice to check it go to
Settings and pick Google search
assistant and voice voice tap voice
match and if you have the unlock with
voice match option turn it on once you
sign in to Google Chrome your Android
phone will be able to get access to the
tabs open on your other devices as long
as they're signed in as well this way
you can keep working with your office
chrome tabs from your phone on the way
home just choose other devices in the
menu or new tab page
if you see a plane flying low over your
neighborhood you can easily find out
where it's heading ask Siri about the
planes that are overhead the program
will immediately inform you which
airlines are flying nearby at what
altitude and in what direction if you're
an Android owner you can sync your phone
up with a computer with the help of a
special app for example MightyText it
will allow you to send and receive
messages link to your phone number from
your desktop laptop or tablet you'll
also get your phone notifications on
your computer if you often fall asleep
while listening to music on your iPhone
you can use a timer it will turn the
music off at the specified time open the
clock app hit the timer icon set the
needed time and choose when timer ends
then scroll to the bottom and select
stop playing an able airplane mode on
your smart phone to charge it way faster
than usual
if you want to close several apps at
once on your iPhone swipe up with
several fingers it'll let you get rid of
all open applications in one fell swoop
[Music]
enabling do not disturb mode will
silence your notifications but if you
deep press the Do Not Disturb icon in
the control center you can customize
this function for example you can set
this mode to last until your event ends
or until you leave a particular location
you don't need to hit clear after miss
typing a number in the calculator app on
your iPhone just swipe left on the
number display and you'll delete only
the last digit and to think we used to
just call people up to say hi on these
things